.\" Manpage for the ESP32-Net toolkit.
.\" View with:  man ./docs/esp32-net.7
.\" Install with: cp docs/esp32-net.7 /usr/local/share/man/man7/ && mandb
.TH ESP32-NET 7 "2026-06-23" "ESP32-Net 1.0.0" "ESP32-Net Toolkit Manual"
.SH NAME
esp32\-net \- four\-device passive wireless reconnaissance and WIDS toolkit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B esp32\-net
is a firmware suite, not a host command. Each component is flashed to an
ESP32 board with PlatformIO and operated over WiFi from a browser:

  pio run -t upload        \fR# build + flash the project in the current dir\fP
  pio device monitor       \fR# 115200 baud serial console\fP

  c2-esp32s2/              \fR# coordinator: SoftAP + dashboard\fP
  wardriver-node/          \fR# WiFi survey + GPS + WigleWifi CSV\fP
  warsniffer-node/         \fR# passive 802.11 monitor + WIDS\fP
  bluedriver-node/         \fR# BLE scanner + GATT enumeration\fP

Dashboard: \fBhttp://192.168.4.1/\fP  (or \fBhttp://esp32net.local/\fP via mDNS)
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ESP32\-Net
is a distributed, passive wireless reconnaissance and wireless intrusion
detection (WIDS) toolkit built from four ESP32 boards. One coordinator
("C2") hosts a WiFi access point and a web dashboard; three headless scan
nodes join that access point and stream JSON metadata to it on a timer.
.PP
The toolkit is intended for authorized homelab experiments and penetration
testing engagements. At the radio layer it transmits only what a normal WiFi
scan or BLE scan emits (active-scan probe requests; optional BLE scan
requests) and, on request, a single GATT client connection. It never
deauthenticates clients, injects frames, stands up rogue access points, or
stores raw packet payloads or WPA handshakes. See
.B SECURITY AND LEGAL
below.
.SS Architecture
The three scan nodes (the "S3 nodes") are headless: no display and no local
web UI. They associate to the coordinator's SoftAP, named
.B ESP32-NET
by default, and HTTP POST a compact JSON snapshot to the coordinator's
.B /ingest
endpoint every few seconds. The coordinator keeps a capped in\-RAM inventory,
aggregates all node data, serves a four\-tab dashboard, and relays operator
control commands back to nodes inside each ingest response.
.PP
.nf
   [WarDriver]  [WarSniffer]  [BlueDriver]   <- ESP32-S3 nodes (headless)
        \\            |             /
         \\           |            /   WiFi STA, POST /ingest (JSON)
          \\          |           /
            [  C2 coordinator  ]          <- ESP32-S2, SoftAP "ESP32-NET"
                    |
              HTTP :80 dashboard          <- browser at 192.168.4.1
.fi
.SH COMPONENTS
.TP
.B c2-esp32s2
The coordinator. Target board: ESP32\-S2 (e.g. the Flipper Zero "WiFi Dev
Board", an ESP32\-S2\-WROVER). Hosts the SoftAP, ingests node JSON, holds the
aggregate inventory, serves the dashboard and the
.B /api/*
endpoints, and queues control commands. No scanning hardware of its own.
.TP
.B wardriver-node
WiFi survey node. Target: ESP32\-S3\-DevKitC\-1 (N16R8). Runs active WiFi scans,
stamps results with a NEO\-6M GPS fix, writes a WigleWifi\-1.4 CSV to LittleFS,
and flags surveillance/rogue patterns (heuristic). Reports newly\-seen networks
to the coordinator.
.TP
.B warsniffer-node
Passive 802.11 monitor + WIDS. Target: ESP32\-S3\-DevKitC\-1 (N16R8). Channel\-hops
1\(en13 in promiscuous mode, tallies frame types, builds an AP/STA inventory,
harvests directed probe\-request SSIDs (client preferred\-network lists), and
raises deauth\-flood, beacon\-flood, and evil\-twin detections. Buffers a sampled
live capture of raw frame prefixes for the dashboard's Wireshark\-style packet
view (list + decoded fields + hex/ASCII dump), and matches every frame against a
customizable MAC/OUI watchlist (pushed from the C2) to flag malicious or
surveillance devices.
.TP
.B bluedriver-node
BLE scanner. Target: ESP32\-S3\-DevKitC\-1 (N16R8). Passive or active BLE
advertisement scan via NimBLE v2.x, with per\-device inventory and on\-demand GATT
service/characteristic enumeration. To keep the uplink reliable it interleaves
the radios \(em it scans BLE with WiFi off, then stops the scan, brings WiFi up
only long enough to POST, and resumes scanning (the two are never active at
once). BLE 5.0 only \(em the ESP32\-S3 has no Bluetooth Classic.
.SH BUILDING AND FLASHING
Each component directory is a self\-contained PlatformIO project. From a
directory:
.PP
.nf
   pio pkg install          # pull library dependencies (first time)
   pio run                  # compile only
   pio run -t upload        # compile + flash over USB
   pio run -t uploadfs      # flash the LittleFS data partition
   pio device monitor       # serial console at 115200 baud
.fi
.PP
Flash the coordinator first so its SoftAP exists before the nodes try to
associate. Order between the three nodes does not matter.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Compile\-time settings live in each project's
.B src/config.h
and must be edited before flashing. Key values:
.TP
.B AP_SSID, AP_PASSWORD
Coordinator SoftAP credentials (\fBc2-esp32s2/src/config.h\fP). The matching
.B C2_SSID
/
.B C2_PASSWORD
in every node config must agree. Defaults are
.B ESP32-NET
/
.BR dropnetc2! .
.B Change these before any field use.
.TP
.B GPS_RX_PIN, GPS_TX_PIN, GPS_BAUD
WarDriver UART pins for the NEO\-6M GPS (default RX 18, TX 17, 9600 baud).
.TP
.B CHANNEL_MIN, CHANNEL_MAX, HOP_INTERVAL_MS
WarSniffer channel\-hop range and dwell time. Set
.B CHANNEL_MAX
to 14 only where legally permitted.
.TP
.B DEAUTH_THRESHOLD, BEACON_FLOOD_THRESHOLD, EVIL_TWIN_RSSI_DELTA
WarSniffer WIDS detection thresholds.
.TP
.B DEFAULT_ACTIVE_SCAN
BlueDriver scan mode at boot: active (sends scan requests, richer data) or
passive (listen only, stealthier).
.TP
.B STATUS_LED_ENABLED, STATUS_LED_PIN, LED_BRIGHTNESS
Onboard WS2812 status LED on each node (GPIO 48 on the DevKitC\-1). Set
.B STATUS_LED_ENABLED
to false to disable.
.SH DASHBOARD
The coordinator serves a single\-page dashboard with one tab per node. It polls
.B /api/data
every two seconds and renders live tables; toolbar buttons issue control
commands. Tabs:
.TP
.B OVERVIEW
Per\-node online/offline state, uptime, free heap, and aggregate counts.
.TP
.B WARDRIVER
Scanned AP table (BSSID, SSID, channel, encryption, RSSI, vendor, threat flag)
and the current GPS fix.
.TP
.B WARSNIFFER
Frame\-type counters, AP/STA inventory with client counts, the WIDS alert log,
and the harvested probe\-request SSID list.
.TP
.B BLUEDRIVER
BLE device table (address, name, address type, vendor, manufacturer company ID,
RSSI, hit count, service UUIDs). Click a device row to queue GATT enumeration;
the result renders in the panel below the table.
.SH STATUS LEDS
Each headless node drives its onboard WS2812 so its state is readable without a
serial console:
.PP
.nf
   COLOUR   WARDRIVER           WARSNIFFER          BLUEDRIVER
   green    scanning, GPS fix   sniffing            scanning
   cyan     scanning, no fix    -                   -
   blue     reporting to C2     reporting to C2     reporting to C2
   purple   -                   -                   GATT enum running
   red      -                   recent WIDS alert   -
   amber    scan paused         capture stopped     scan paused
.fi
.SH HTTP API
Served by the coordinator on port 80.
.TP
.B GET /
The dashboard (HTML).
.TP
.B GET /api/data
Full aggregate snapshot as JSON; polled by the dashboard.
.TP
.B GET /api/packets?since=<seq>
Incremental live\-capture feed: WarSniffer frames with a sequence id greater than
.IR seq ,
each as channel, RSSI, on\-air length, and a hex prefix. Powers the dashboard's
Wireshark\-style view.
.TP
.B GET /api/watch, POST /api/watch
Read or edit the MAC/OUI watchlist. POST body:
.BR {"op":"add|del|clear","mac":"AA:BB:CC","label":"..."} .
The list is persisted on the C2 and pushed to the WarSniffer.
.TP
.B POST /api/cmd
Queue a control command. Body:
.BR {"target":"wardriver|warsniffer|bluedriver","cmd":"...","on":N} .
The
.B gatt
command additionally takes
.B mac
and
.BR addrType .
.TP
.B GET /api/export/wifi, /api/export/ble, /api/export/sniff
Stream the current inventory as RFC\-4180 CSV (with a
.B Content-Disposition
attachment header) for offline reporting.
.TP
.B POST /ingest
Node\-to\-coordinator telemetry. See
.B INGEST PROTOCOL
below.
.SH INGEST PROTOCOL
Nodes POST application/json to
.BR /ingest .
Request envelope:
.PP
.nf
   {
     "source":    "ESP32-WarDriver" | "ESP32-WarSniffer" | "ESP32-BlueDriver",
     "ver":       "1.0.0",
     "linkEpoch": <n>,        // last epoch this node saw from the C2
     "lastCmdId": <n>,        // highest command id this node has applied
     "status":    { ... },    // uptime, heap, frame counters, gps, etc.
     "count":     <n>,
     "devices" | "aps" | "alerts" | "probes": [ ... ]
   }
.fi
.PP
Response envelope:
.PP
.nf
   {
     "ok":    1,
     "epoch": <nonce>,        // per-node boot nonce assigned by the C2
     "commands": [ { "id": <n>, "cmd": "scan", "on": 0 }, ... ]
   }
.fi
.PP
Command grammar (in the response
.B commands
array):
.PP
.nf
   cmd      fields                       effect
   scan     on:1/0                       start / stop scanning
   clear    -                            wipe the node's device store
   hop      on:1/0                       WarSniffer: channel hopping on/off
   config   on:<ch>                      WarSniffer: lock to a channel
   config   on:1/0                       BlueDriver: active(1) vs passive(0) scan
   gatt     mac:"AA:..", addrType:0/1    BlueDriver: enumerate GATT (~8 s)
.fi
.PP
Each command has a monotonic
.BR id .
A node acknowledges by echoing its highest applied id as
.B lastCmdId
in subsequent requests; the coordinator then drops acknowledged commands from
the queue. The
.B linkEpoch
/
.B epoch
handshake provides exactly\(hyonce delivery across a reboot of either board: a
new epoch resets the node's ack counter so stale, pre\(hyreboot acks cannot
silently drop fresh commands.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B <component>/src/config.h
Compile\-time configuration for each component.
.TP
.B <component>/platformio.ini
PlatformIO board, build flags, and library dependencies.
.TP
.B <component>/partitions.csv
Flash partition layout.
.TP
.B /wigle.csv
WigleWifi\-1.4 survey log written to the WarDriver's LittleFS partition
(path set by
.B WIFI_LOG_PATH
in config.h).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Flash everything (coordinator first):
.nf
   (cd c2-esp32s2     && pio run -t upload)
   (cd wardriver-node && pio run -t upload)
   (cd warsniffer-node && pio run -t upload)
   (cd bluedriver-node && pio run -t upload)
.fi
.TP
Stop the WarDriver scan from the command line:
.nf
   curl -X POST http://192.168.4.1/api/cmd \\
        -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \\
        -d '{"target":"wardriver","cmd":"scan","on":0}'
.fi
.TP
Enumerate GATT on a discovered BLE device (addrType 1 = random):
.nf
   curl -X POST http://192.168.4.1/api/cmd \\
        -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \\
        -d '{"target":"bluedriver","cmd":"gatt","mac":"AA:BB:CC:DD:EE:FF","addrType":1}'
.fi
.TP
Export the WiFi inventory as CSV:
.nf
   curl -OJ http://192.168.4.1/api/export/wifi
.fi
.TP
Pull the WarDriver's WigleWifi log over USB:
.nf
   (cd wardriver-node && pio run -t uploadfs)   # (re)init the data partition
   # or read /wigle.csv via your own LittleFS tooling
.fi
.SH SECURITY AND LEGAL
This toolkit is for
.B authorized testing only.
Operate it only on networks and devices you own or have explicit written
authorization to assess. Passive 802.11 monitoring, active WiFi/BLE scanning,
probe\(hyrequest collection, and GATT enumeration may be regulated or prohibited
in your jurisdiction; you are responsible for compliance. Channel 14 and any
transmit\(hyrelated configuration must only be enabled where legally permitted.
.PP
By design the toolkit does not transmit deauthentication or injection frames,
does not operate a rogue access point, and does not store WPA handshakes \(em
EAPOL frames are counted, never captured. The SoftAP is WPA2\(hyprotected; change
the default credentials before any use.
.PP
Hardening: the tool ingests attacker\(hycontrollable data (SSIDs, BLE names, raw
frames). CSV exports are RFC\-4180 quoted and apostrophe\(hyguard leading
=,+,-,@ to block spreadsheet formula injection; dashboard output is
HTML\(hyescaped; 802.11 frame parsing is bounds\(hychecked. The HTTP API has no
per\(hyrequest authentication \(em it trusts the WPA2 SoftAP as its boundary, so
keep that AP private and do not bridge it.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR curl (1),
.BR man (1)
.PP
Project README and per\-component source comments. PlatformIO documentation at
<https://docs.platformio.org/>. WigleWifi CSV format at <https://wigle.net/>.
.SH BUGS
Report issues at the project repository:
<https://github.com/aingram702/esp32-net>.
.SH AUTHORS
The ESP32\-Net contributors.
